we've been getting reports that the US
has carried out air strikes in Iraq and
Syria it's in response to Sunday's drone
attack on a US military base that killed
three soldiers let's go straight to our
senior International correspondent Olan
who's in Northern Iraq tonight Ola what
do we
know well America's retaliation is
underway Jane we know that 85 targets
have been struck in Syria and here in
Iraq American bombers have been flying
long range missions from the United
States which hold that they have
targeted command and control centers
associated with Iran's revolutionary
guards and with Allied Iranian militias
now the region has been on a countdown
Jane since last Sunday since those
American troops were killed President
Biden has been trying if you like to
square a circle to come up with a
response that is strong enough to
satisfy public opinion in the United
States in an election year strong enough
to satisfy Republican pressure but not
so strong that it triggers a much
harsher reaction from Iran or from any
of these proxy militias now that is a
very difficult balance to strike we
don't yet have any reports about the
casualties the numbers of people killed
or the damage that has been inflicted by
these strikes tonight the Americans have
said it will be a multi-tiered response
it could be several locations over
several days we've been told that the
first thing we see will not be the last
thing we see so this action will
continue and the US Secretary of State
Lloyd Austin has said there is a way to
manage this so that things do not
escalate out of control well now we will
see if that is actually the case the
Middle East is a tinder box at the
moment this is a new and dangerous
moment but the Iranian leader himself uh
Ibrahim RI said today that Iran did not
want to start a war but that if anybody
tried to pressure it or bully it there
would be a strong response so white
house and Tran saying the same thing
they don't want a major escalation but
it's unclear if the situation will be
contained